README.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021 Open Networking Foundation <info@opennetworking.org>
Copyright 2019 free5GC.org
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Canonical Ltd.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
-->
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/omec-project/webconsole)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/omec-project/webconsole)

# WebConsole

Webconsole is used as a configuration service in SD-Core. It has following
features Configuration Service provides APIs for subscriber management.

1. It provides APIs for Network Slice management.
2. It  communicates with 4G as well as 5G network functions on the southbound interface.
3. It does configuration translation wherever required and also stores the subscription in mongoDB.
4. 5G clients can connect & get complete configuration copy through grpc interface.
5. 4G clients communicate with Webconsole through REST interface

## UI

Webconsole can optionally serve static files, which constitute the frontend part of the application.

To build webui with a frontend, place the static files under `webconsole/ui/frontend_files` before compilation.

To build the webconsole including the UI option:
```
make webconsole-ui
```

Access the UI at:
```
http://<webconsole-ip>:5000/
```

An example static file has been placed in the `webconsole/ui/frontend_files` directory.

## Authentication and Authorization

The authentication and authorization feature ensures that only verified and authorized users can access the webui resources and interact with the system.

This is an optional feature, disabled by default. For more details, refer to this [file](backend/auth/README.md).

## Webconsole Architecture diagram

![Architecture](/docs/images/architecture1.png)

## Upcoming Features

1. Supporting dedicated flow QoS APIs
2. Removal of Subscription to trigger 3gpp call flows

Commit message:

feat: delete UPF and gNB is propagated to NS (#279)
* feat: delete UPF and gNB is propagated to NS

Signed-off-by: Patricia Reinoso <patricia.reinoso@canonical.com>

* update swagger doc

Signed-off-by: Patricia Reinoso <patricia.reinoso@canonical.com>

* comments from review: improve err variables and logging

Signed-off-by: Patricia Reinoso <patricia.reinoso@canonical.com>

* use transactions

Signed-off-by: Patricia Reinoso <patricia.reinoso@canonical.com>

* restore CORS header

Signed-off-by: Patricia Reinoso <patricia.reinoso@canonical.com>

* rename function to SupportsTransactions

Signed-off-by: Patricia Reinoso <patricia.reinoso@canonical.com>

* clean up

Signed-off-by: Patricia Reinoso <patricia.reinoso@canonical.com>

* enforce transactions

Signed-off-by: Patricia Reinoso <patricia.reinoso@canonical.com>

* delete code does not fail silently anymor

Signed-off-by: Patricia Reinoso <patricia.reinoso@canonical.com>

* update packages

Signed-off-by: Patricia Reinoso <patricia.reinoso@canonical.com>

* enforce rs in mongodb

Signed-off-by: Patricia Reinoso <patricia.reinoso@canonical.com>

* improve logs

Signed-off-by: Patricia Reinoso <patricia.reinoso@canonical.com>

* handle error when abort transaction fails

Signed-off-by: Patricia Reinoso <patricia.reinoso@canonical.com>

* add doc

Signed-off-by: Patricia Reinoso <patricia.reinoso@canonical.com>

* update mongoapi

Signed-off-by: Patricia Reinoso <patricia.reinoso@canonical.com>

* take care of comments

Signed-off-by: Patricia Reinoso <patricia.reinoso@canonical.com>

* update mongoapi

Signed-off-by: Patricia Reinoso <patricia.reinoso@canonical.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Patricia Reinoso <patricia.reinoso@canonical.com>

README.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021 Open Networking Foundation <info@opennetworking.org>
Copyright 2019 free5GC.org
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Canonical Ltd.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
-->
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/omec-project/webconsole)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/omec-project/webconsole)

# WebConsole

Webconsole is used as a configuration service in SD-Core. It has following
features Configuration Service provides APIs for subscriber management.

1. It provides APIs for Network Slice management.
2. It  communicates with 4G as well as 5G network functions on the southbound interface.
3. It does configuration translation wherever required and also stores the subscription in mongoDB.
4. 5G clients can connect & get complete configuration copy through grpc interface.
5. 4G clients communicate with Webconsole through REST interface

## UI

Webconsole can optionally serve static files, which constitute the frontend part of the application.

To build webui with a frontend, place the static files under `webconsole/ui/frontend_files` before compilation.

To build the webconsole including the UI option:
```
make webconsole-ui
```

Access the UI at:
```
http://<webconsole-ip>:5000/
```

An example static file has been placed in the `webconsole/ui/frontend_files` directory.

## Authentication and Authorization

The authentication and authorization feature ensures that only verified and authorized users can access the webui resources and interact with the system.

This is an optional feature, disabled by default. For more details, refer to this [file](backend/auth/README.md).

##  MongoDB Transaction Support

This application requires a MongoDB deployment configured to support transactions,
such as a replica set or a sharded cluster. Standalone MongoDB instances do not
support transactions and will prevent the application from starting. Please ensure
your MongoDB instance is properly set up for transactions. For detailed configuration
instructions, see the [MongoDB Replica Set Documentation](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/kubernetes-operator/current/tutorial/deploy-replica-set/).

## Webconsole Architecture diagram

![Architecture](/docs/images/architecture1.png)

## Upcoming Features

1. Supporting dedicated flow QoS APIs
2. Removal of Subscription to trigger 3gpp call flows
